10- Steve Jones is a biologist who is studying evolution and its impacts. During his time at Unilever, Steve was tasked with helping to create a special nozzle that would increase the production of soap powder making. Steve’s approach on the problem was to take the current model of the nozzle and replicate it ten times. After replicating it, Steve would randomly change each of the ten nozzles then test them to see which one worked best. Once he had found the altered model that increased production the most, he would make ten copies of that and alter each one of those. He continued to discover which new nozzle was best suited for 45 variations. At the end of his test the nozzle that he had created was several hundred times more effective than the nozzle he started out with. The significance of these results was that instead of tiny improvements to performance, Steve was able to rapidly improve the performance through this technique. 

8- Why Nations Fail is about their theory that developing nations have a difficult time improving because of political elites that use their power and influence to keep themselves at a higher standard of living while keeping the poorer populace beneath them. Their argument to the previous ideas of helping provide prosperity by giving economic advice is that poor countries will have weak institutions because the leaders of these poor countries are corrupt and will keep their power by allowing these weak institutions to stay in effect. They argue that there isn’t anything outsiders can do to increase prosperity because the internal politics of that country don’t want change in the economic setting. 
