# Response to Blumenstock - Don't forget about humans in data for development

  Blumenstock discusses the ways that development has changed due to data science while still being able to cut back on the amount of problems associated with it. Blumenstock promotes the ideas, that with new inovations though data science, there are several promising features to accompany it. He discusses that cell phones can lead to humanitarian efforts being able to focus their aid more strictly on poorer populations due to phone usage and satellite data. Being able to focus solely on the poor helps groups make sure that they are aiding those who actually need assistance. Blumenstock also proposes the ability of disaster tracking through data science. Satellites and cell phones would be able to identify damage due to disasters and correctly assume the course of the disaster to help others.
 
 Even with all the promises data science brings, Blumenstock still argues that currently there are several pitfalls that would hinder development at the time being. Blumenstock says that efforts would end up helping the empowered more than the impoverished. There is a lack of accuracy in trying to calculate where aid is needed because the powerful can live in a hut to get aid then move back into their mansion after. Another problem that is addressed is that in the third world countries where the relief efforts would be used, the poor are more likely to be uneducated and not be suited or knowing of the terms and conditions they have to take to receive aid. A lack of data privacy is also a key pitfall in the third world. Citizens information can be hacked or looked into without consequence.
 
 The statements involving "good intent", "transparency", a "balancing act" and data science are all very accurate. The quote about "good intent" is correct in the fact that people need to do more than just wanting to be helpful when other's lives and wellbeings are at stake.  
