# Response to Jahan and Rosling

In his speach Jahan states that there are several issues that are in need of attention throughout the world. One of such issues is that levels of work must be created in order for human development to expand. He also states that youth employment, gender work, agriculture, and the informal sector must be a priority. He stresses that things like care work and artists should also be a focus. At the beginning of his talk Jahan also gives his definition of what human development is. Jahan states that human development is that of enlarging human choices and he gives two steps in enlarging these human choices. These steps allow for development to increase as people do more to enlarge their capabilities. Their capabilities then let people work better and have new skill sets. The first is that human capabilities must be enhanced in order for people to have more choices. The second is that there must be opportunities that are created in order for people to show off their capabilities. Jahan also speaks on the Human Development Index and the measures it takes. There are two different measures: the Breadth measure and the Focus Measure. Breadth measures contain all the assessments of development and Focus measures index the basics of development. With these two measures the HDI is able to compare differnet countries over the world.

During his TedTalk, Rosling discusses how economic change has been shown to be influenced by social and health changes in countries. He uses several graphics to display these findings with one example being South Korea. Rosling shows how over time as South Korea's child survival rate rose, so did its GDP per capita. He states how that since South Korea was able to improve health earlier on, the economic change there was able to happen a lot faster than if health stayed at a lower level. Rosling also spoke on how averages in data sets could end up being troublesome. He showed how in places like Sub-Saharan Africa there are countries with vastly different development statuses. Since the development in different countries varied so greatly, it would hurt the efforts in each country if an average was used to describe the development there. Rosling stated that each country should be looked at individually to ensure the proper status and humanitarian help. The ideas that all these developing countries should be looked at the same way ends up hurting their development. 
